Docs for MAX_NUMBER_OF_DISABLED_STATIC_RULES (#34447)
mdn/content: files/en-us/mozilla/add-ons/webextensions/api/declarativenetrequest/max_number_of_disabled_static_rules/index.md

---
title: declarativeNetRequest.MAX_NUMBER_OF_DISABLED_STATIC_RULES
slug: Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/declarativeNetRequest/MAX_NUMBER_OF_DISABLED_STATIC_RULES
page-type: webextension-api-property
browser-compat: webextensions.api.declarativeNetRequest.MAX_NUMBER_OF_DISABLED_STATIC_RULES
---

{{AddonSidebar}}

The maximum number of static rules that can be disabled on each static ruleset. See [static ruleset limits](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/declarativeNetRequest#static_ruleset_limits) for more information on the static ruleset limits.

Rules are enabled and disabled in static rulesets with {{WebExtAPIRef("declarativeNetRequest.updateStaticRules","updateStaticRules")}} and a list of disabled rules for a static ruleset is obtained with {{WebExtAPIRef("declarativeNetRequest.getDisabledRuleIds","getDisabledRuleIds")}}.

This limit is:

- in Firefox: `5000`

> - in Chrome: `5000`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- in Chrome: `5000`, counted across all rulesets instead of per ruleset.
```

According to https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/162#issuecomment-2211076093 Chrome is leaning towards not exposing a constant for now. Nevertheless it would be useful to clarify that the limit is across rulesets instead of per ruleset.

If in doubt I would also be okay with documenting that the limit is across all rulesets for now, and adjust that later to per ruleset if needed. It is always easier to document relaxed constraints than to tighten the restrictions later.

---
title: declarativeNetRequest.MAX_NUMBER_OF_DISABLED_STATIC_RULES
slug: Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/declarativeNetRequest/MAX_NUMBER_OF_DISABLED_STATIC_RULES
page-type: webextension-api-property
browser-compat: webextensions.api.declarativeNetRequest.MAX_NUMBER_OF_DISABLED_STATIC_RULES
---

{{AddonSidebar}}

> The maximum number of static rules that can be disabled on each static ruleset.

Reviewer: Mention that this can be done through https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/declarativeNetRequest/updateStaticRules and that the current list of disabled rules can be retrieved via https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/declarativeNetRequest/getDisabledRuleIds

And mention this constant in these APIs.

---
title: declarativeNetRequest.MAX_NUMBER_OF_DISABLED_STATIC_RULES
slug: Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/declarativeNetRequest/MAX_NUMBER_OF_DISABLED_STATIC_RULES
page-type: webextension-api-property
browser-compat: webextensions.api.declarativeNetRequest.MAX_NUMBER_OF_DISABLED_STATIC_RULES
---

{{AddonSidebar}}

The maximum number of static rules that can be disabled on each static ruleset.

> Rules are enable and disable in static rulesets with {{WebExtAPIRef("declarativeNetRequest.updateStaticRules","updateStaticRules")}} and a list of disabled rules for a static ruleset is obtained with {{WebExtAPIRef("declarativeNetRequest.getDisabledRuleIds","getDisabledRuleIds")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rules are enabled and disabled in static rulesets with {{WebExtAPIRef("declarativeNetRequest.updateStaticRules","updateStaticRules")}} and a list of disabled rules for a static ruleset is obtained with {{WebExtAPIRef("declarativeNetRequest.getDisabledRuleIds","getDisabledRuleIds")}}.
```

This limit is:

- in Firefox: `5000`

> - in Chrome: `5000`

Reviewer: In Chrome the limit is across all static rulesets.

(In Firefox it is per ruleset)

@rpl Could you confirm that this is intentional? What should we document?
